In Machine Learning, we teach machines to do things.What machines learn allows them to make smart decisions later on. However machines do not learn like us ,so we teach them through data.
Machine Learning algorithms give machines the power to learn very complex models and to process a great quantity of information. On the other hand, they are entirely dependant and limited by the learning input data.
We train our machine learning model on some training data and then we check its accuracy on test data.
In Machine Learning there are mainly three possible ways of learning things through data:
	1)Supervised Learning.
	2)Unsupervised Learning.
	3)Reinforcement Learning.

A)Supervised Learning:-It consists in learning a decision model from data thanks to labels associated with data(Involves an output label associated with each instance in the dataset.)
For Example-:Try to picture: we have a dataset of many images of cats and dogs. For each image we know if it represents a cat or a dog: that’s the label. We give all the images and their corresponding labels to the model. Then, it should be able to make the difference on its own.If everything goes well, when showing a new image to the model but without having its label, it should be able to tell us whether it’s a cat or a dog.In above example input given to model can be shape of ears,whether the given has whiskers or not and many more.We train our model on dataset which contains inputs and its corresponding output(whether cat or dog) and then we test our model on some new images to check if the model learned well or not.
Another example would be classification of flowers.

B)Unsupervised Learning:There we have data but no label. So we will not be able to learn to classify cats or dogs the same way. But we will rather try to find a structure in data that we could interpret.(This is an ‘unaided’ type learning when your data typically has no known output labels or any feedback loop)
For Example-:Let’s still consider our dataset of dogs and cats Images but without labels this time. We have the images but we can’t tell the machine what they represent. An application of Unsupervised Learning could be to find that the underlying structure of the dataset of images defines two groups of similar images (also called clusters). Each data point (an image in our example) would be assigned to either cluster during the learning (the clustering). And finally, thanks to a specific domain expertise of cats and dogs, we could define that one cluster contains cat images and the other one contains dog images.Unlike supervised Learning, we don’t have any ground truth here. So it’s harder to know if the learnt model is relevant. Here rather than testing on other data, we often check if our clusters fit well to data (that is to say that each cluster is compact, different and well separated from the others) or if they are in accordance with our domain expert vision.

C)Reinforcement Learning:This approach is a bit similar to the way a baby would learn things. Indeed, at the start the machine does not know anything. It will try something and according to the results it will decide if it was a good or a bad decision. After many tries, if the model learned well, the machine will become better and better and, eventually, only take good decisions.
For Example:Suppose you have a robotic dog and you want to teach it to walk and explore the world.Lets say robot has one camera so its environment is an image. So the robot gets an image, uses it to take a decision: It decides to make a step and then gets a new image according to its new position. The aim of the robot is to travel the farthest possible without breaking down. The robot is going to travel and when it will encounter an obstacle, let’s say a wall, it will learn after some tries that going right into the wall might not be the best decision to travel far. It will then learn after some times to go around the walls and finally to avoid them completely.The problem is that at the start, the robot does not have any landmark. If your robot, through its wandering, ends up at the border of a canyon, it will get an image that it has never seen before. So it will probably take the decision to go forward to improve its travel distance. However it will obviously fall down and end it’s travel abruptly.That’s probably the main problem of reinforcement learning.if you want to learn a robot dog to walk on its own from the begining,you should better have lots of robots.Because it will experience all sort of crashes in order to understand what to do not to actually crash.

So basically machine learning is all about gathring some input data,then train your machine on data and then predict some output.Output data can be in a form of classification(whether given images is dog or cat) or in the form of regression(some number like) or clustering(where we group similar things together).




